docs/api-usage-advanced/inclusion.rst, before:

Inclusion
=========

Associated Data
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The listener will detect associated data as produced by
``contain`` and will automatically render those associations
into the JSON API response as specified by the specification.

Let's take the following example code for the ``view`` action of
a Country model with a ``belongsTo`` association to Currencies
and a ``hasMany`` relationship with Cultures:

.. code-block:: php

  public function view()
  {
    $this->Crud->on('beforeFind', function (Event $event) {
      $event->getSubject()->query->contain([
        'Currencies',
        'Cultures',
      ]);
    });

    return $this->Crud->execute();
  }

Assuming a successful find the listener would produce the
following JSON API response including all associated data:

.. code-block:: json

  {
    "data": {
      "type": "countries",
      "id": "2",
      "attributes": {
        "code": "BE",
        "name": "Belgium"
      },
      "relationships": {
        "currency": {
          "data": {
            "type": "currencies",
            "id": "1"
          },
          "links": {
            "self": "/currencies/1"
          }
        },
        "cultures": {
          "data": [
            {
              "type": "cultures",
              "id": "2"
            },
            {
              "type": "cultures",
              "id": "3"
            }
          ],
          "links": {
            "self": "/cultures?country_id=2"
          }
        }
      },
      "links": {
        "self": "/countries/2"
      }
    },
    "included": [
      {
        "type": "currencies",
        "id": "1",
        "attributes": {
          "code": "EUR",
          "name": "Euro"
        },
        "links": {
          "self": "/currencies/1"
        }
      },
      {
        "type": "cultures",
        "id": "2",
        "attributes": {
          "code": "nl-BE",
          "name": "Dutch (Belgium)"
        },
        "links": {
          "self": "/cultures/2"
        }
      },
      {
        "type": "cultures",
        "id": "3",
        "attributes": {
          "code": "fr-BE",
          "name": "French (Belgium)"
        },
        "links": {
          "self": "/cultures/3"
        }
      }
    ]
  }

Include Parameter
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Crud-json-api fully supports the JSON API ``include`` request parameter which allows a client
to specify which related/associated resources should be returned.

As an example, a client could produce the exact same JSON API response as shown above by using
``/countries/2?include=cultures,currencies``.

.. note::

  If the ``include`` parameter is provided, then only the requested relationships will be included
  in the ``included`` schema.

Whitelist/blacklist
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

It is possible to blacklist, or whitelist what the client is allowed to include.
This is done using the listener configuration:

.. code-block:: php

  public function view()
  {
    $this->Crud
      ->listener('jsonApi')
      ->config('queryParameters.include.whitelist', ['cultures', 'cities']);

    return $this->Crud->execute();
  }

Whitelisting will prevent all non-whitelisted associations from being
contained. Blacklisting will prevent any blacklisted associations from
being included. Blacklisting takes precedence of whitelisting (i.e
blacklisting and whitelisting the same association will prevent it from
being included). If you wish to prevent any associations, set the ``blacklist``
config option to ``true``:

.. code-block:: php

  public function view()
  {
    $this->Crud
      ->listener('jsonApi')
      ->config('queryParameters.include.blacklist', true);

    return $this->Crud->execute();
  }

Commit message:

Replace black/white list with deny/allow list

docs/api-usage-advanced/inclusion.rst, after:

Inclusion
=========

Associated Data
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The listener will detect associated data as produced by
``contain`` and will automatically render those associations
into the JSON API response as specified by the specification.

Let's take the following example code for the ``view`` action of
a Country model with a ``belongsTo`` association to Currencies
and a ``hasMany`` relationship with Cultures:

.. code-block:: php

  public function view()
  {
    $this->Crud->on('beforeFind', function (Event $event) {
      $event->getSubject()->query->contain([
        'Currencies',
        'Cultures',
      ]);
    });

    return $this->Crud->execute();
  }

Assuming a successful find the listener would produce the
following JSON API response including all associated data:

.. code-block:: json

  {
    "data": {
      "type": "countries",
      "id": "2",
      "attributes": {
        "code": "BE",
        "name": "Belgium"
      },
      "relationships": {
        "currency": {
          "data": {
            "type": "currencies",
            "id": "1"
          },
          "links": {
            "self": "/currencies/1"
          }
        },
        "cultures": {
          "data": [
            {
              "type": "cultures",
              "id": "2"
            },
            {
              "type": "cultures",
              "id": "3"
            }
          ],
          "links": {
            "self": "/cultures?country_id=2"
          }
        }
      },
      "links": {
        "self": "/countries/2"
      }
    },
    "included": [
      {
        "type": "currencies",
        "id": "1",
        "attributes": {
          "code": "EUR",
          "name": "Euro"
        },
        "links": {
          "self": "/currencies/1"
        }
      },
      {
        "type": "cultures",
        "id": "2",
        "attributes": {
          "code": "nl-BE",
          "name": "Dutch (Belgium)"
        },
        "links": {
          "self": "/cultures/2"
        }
      },
      {
        "type": "cultures",
        "id": "3",
        "attributes": {
          "code": "fr-BE",
          "name": "French (Belgium)"
        },
        "links": {
          "self": "/cultures/3"
        }
      }
    ]
  }

Include Parameter
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Crud-json-api fully supports the JSON API ``include`` request parameter which allows a client
to specify which related/associated resources should be returned.

As an example, a client could produce the exact same JSON API response as shown above by using
``/countries/2?include=cultures,currencies``.

.. note::

  If the ``include`` parameter is provided, then only the requested relationships will be included
  in the ``included`` schema.

allowList/denyList
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

It is possible to denyList, or allowList what the client is allowed to include.
This is done using the listener configuration:

.. code-block:: php

  public function view()
  {
    $this->Crud
      ->listener('jsonApi')
      ->config('queryParameters.include.allowList', ['cultures', 'cities']);

    return $this->Crud->execute();
  }

allowListing will prevent all non-allowListed associations from being
contained. Blacklisting will prevent any denyListed associations from
being included. Blacklisting takes precedence of allowListing (i.e
denyListing and allowListing the same association will prevent it from
being included). If you wish to prevent any associations, set the ``denyList``
config option to ``true``:

.. code-block:: php

  public function view()
  {
    $this->Crud
      ->listener('jsonApi')
      ->config('queryParameters.include.denyList', true);

    return $this->Crud->execute();
  }
